# SurfsUp - Congressional App Challenge 2024 (Hawaii) - HI01

## Credits: Shlok Singh, Prajit Chennupati, Austin Uezu, Richard Condradt

## District: Hawaii - 01

Our app, SurfsUp, is designed to help surfers of all skill levels discover and decide the best surfboard based on their unique needs. SurfsUp takes into account many important factors that make each surfboard perfect for its user. The app asks each user three questions - their skill level (beginner, intermediate, advanced), wave type (low waves, medium waves, high waves), and what improvement they would like to add to their surfing game (speed, maneuverability, stability). The user navigates from one criteria question to the next using the programmed next buttons. All these responses are stored within the app program. Then, it searches through a database that our team made for each specific test case/use to find the perfect match, utilizing a for loop and functions with parameters for each criteria. Once the app finds a match, it displays to the user the surfboard name and image. However, in case you would like to go back and change your responses, there is also a home button located on every page of the app for the user to restart the process and continue finding their dream surfboard easily.

One common activity that our team met through is surfing. Every summer Shlok and Prajit head over to Hawaii to spend time on the beautiful and extravagant beaches. This was when we met Richard and Austin in a nearby surfing club by one of the beaches. Ever since then, we have become close family friends and we visit each other whenever we are nearby. When deciding what to build, we all remembered the first time we met at a surfing club and how much of a problem we had choosing the right surfboard. When researching, we realized how massive of an issue this is for all surfers beginners to advanced, so we decided to build this app. Surfing brought us together and has become an integral part of all our lives, and the thought of being able to help people start their surfing journey with the right surfboards is exciting. We plan to make this app even more viable for a larger audience of surfers.

One of the many technical challenges we faced while making our application was creating the database on code.org. The database was a particularly new feature that nobody on the team had prior experience with. Due to this fact, it required immense collaboration to figure out how to properly utilize it to store images. Austin figured out how to store images in the databases. This was not the end of the troubleshooting, however. Once we managed to store images in the database we had created, we were unable to display them on the screen. We utilized a getText block, from a function we created prior in order to resolve this issue. The getText block uses the image ID (stored on the database) to get the image. Using this method we were able to display surfboard images to the screen. Another grueling problem we had to overcome was understanding the iteration process. We were unsure of how to successfully curate this part of our program. However, two of our teammates, Prajit and Shlok, learned how to develop for loops that not only iterated through the database successfully but also took into account user input to display a user's optimal surfboard. It was through immense collaboration coupled with independent research and analysis that we were able to overcome two seemingly impossible technical challenges.

If we were to create a 2.0 version of our app, we would like to add more features that would make the surfboard algorithm even more accurate and unique to each user. Recently, with the rise of AI in our lives, our team has had a growing interest in this field. To learn more about AI, we have been looking at tutorials, machine learning (ML) algorithms, and real-world applications of AI and ML. Using our newly learned knowledge, we would like to implement machine learning programs and AI models in the app to make the surfing recommendations even more accurate. Next, we would like to increase the database of the app itself, so that the user can have multiple options that they can choose from. Additionally, with the increased number of surfboards recommended to the user, we would like to include a budget feature and a link to the most affordable place to purchase each surfboard. This feature will allow users from all budgets and backgrounds to use the app and it will also increase convenience as the app will already give them the most affordable place to buy the surfboard. Finally, adding more criteria questions will also make the app more accurate like surfboard height/size, user weight, user fitness level, etc. All in all, these new features will make the user experience more convenient and will appear to a much larger audience group of surfers.
